Parts of last lecture fell extremely flat for me, especially the brick wall anology. Maybe once upon a time, for certain groups of people, the only thing preventing them from pursuing their dreams was their determination. I feel as though that is not accurate for the vast majority of people today however. Sure, there are waysto get past the brick wall. You could join the military, you could take out student loans, you could work your butt off for scholarships and only take class by class as they'll pay for it, you could play the lotto, you could work till you are 50 saving up bit by bit to pay for school out of pocket. But really, all of that boils down to the same thing, money is the brick wall, not education. If you can't afford the price of admission, it's going to be harder for you to get to where you want to be, maybe even impossible.So yes, there are a myriad of ways to get past the brick wall that higher education represents. There were parts of his talk that i agreed with, such as living well leads to well living. It costs us nothing to be kind to others, and to help in whatever small way is available to you. I think that pays divedends in your life in that you are a happier person when you help others or the world around you. Maybe it is picking up trah, maybe it's holding the door, maybe you are wealthy enough to pay for 30 taiwanese children to go to school every year. Whatever it is, doing good makes you feel good, and people tend to respond to that. People can pick up on it when you are a content person deep down in your soul, and it shows in how they interact with you. That is the one thing I can wholeheartedly agree with that Mr. Pausch says. As far as what he has overcome, he admits that he has had a lot of help along the way. Your connections in life are absolutely essential to your success, and you should try and make them where ever possible. The one thing that did resonate was seeing something someone else had made, and thinking, "I want to create things like this for others to experience" rather than "I want to experience this". That was the only message of his that really rung true for me. Growing up, I always enjoyed creating things, and teaching others. I lost that drive and that passion until recent years, when it finally clicked for me that I really could just make the stories I wanted to see exist. Taking this class is part of learning how to do that. The other part that kind of struck me is how you are percieved by peers having an effect on what you can accomplish. Having been in the army in a male dominated field, I can completely understand that. There were many times where I had to argue my idea till I was blue in the face, and suffer trying to fix something 4 different ways before finally I was allowed to do it the way I had suggested. So yes, perception does have a great effect on how much you will be able to accomplish. Sometimes that perception is through no fault of your own, and you still must overcome it. Sometimes you are just a dick, as Mr. Pausch put it. You still have to overcome that, though you have direct control over your own actions in that regard. Perceptions by others based off things you cannot change about yourself are certainly hurdles, and in a perfect world it would be on the person making assumptions to change their ways, but this is not a perfect world so unfortunately a lot of the time it will fall on you to change their perception instead.


